Time for some fun.
It is time for digital signal processing.
Here we will discuss how radar converts a signal from time domain to frequency domain,
in order to generate range and diplomats.
Sounds interesting?
Fourier transform. No, no,
don't start panicking yet.
For the purpose of this course,
we don't have to learn the mathematical implementation of FFT.
All we need to do is understand how FFT helps in radar detections.
What is Fourier transform?
The Fourier transform is a tool that helps convert
a time-domain signal into frequency domain,
for a better analysis of its spectral content.
Let's see how it works in the most basic way.
So Jean Baptiste Fourier,
proved the mathematical fact that,
any periodic waveform can be expressed as the sum of an infinite set of sine waves.
As the image shows,
the signal in time domain has multiple sine waves associated with it.
What FFT does is that,
it takes the time domain signal and separates it into its different frequency components.
This helps in understanding the spectral content of a signal,
which is important for analyzing and processing the beat frequency.
This is it, it wasn't too difficult, right?
Let's take a look at first dimension FFT or the range of FFT.
As we learned earlier,
every single chirp is sampled multiple times.
In order to get the spectral content of the beat frequency,
we perform the FFT across all the data collected at every sample within each chirp.
We repeat the process for all chirps to get a 2D matrix of size,
number of samples, into number of chirps.
All the columns in the matrix corresponds to the range bins.
The yellow bins, depict the presence of targets hence giving the range for every target.
Here in the image, we can see two targets located at two different locations.